README.md, before:

# QANTA

## Downloading Data

Whether you would like to use our system or use only our dataset, the easiest way to do so is
use our `dataset.py` script. It is a standalone script whose only dependencies are python 3.6 and the package `click`
which can be installed via `pip install click`.

The following commands can be used to download our dataset, or datasets we use in either the system or paper plots.
Data will be downloaded to `data/external/datasets` by default, but can be changed with the `--local-qanta-prefix`
option

* `./dataset.py download`: Download only the qanta dataset
* `./dataset.py download wikidata`: Download our preprocessed wikidata.org `instance of` attributes
* `./dataset.py download plotting`: Download the squad, simple questions, jeopardy, and triviaqa datasets we
compare against in our paper plots and tables

### File Description:

* `qanta.unmapped.2021.12.20.json`: All questions in our dataset, without mapped Wikipedia answers. Sourced from
protobowl and quizdb. Light preprocessing has been applied to remove quiz bowl specific syntax such as instructions
to moderators
* `qanta.processed.2021.12.20.json`: Prior dataset with added fields extracting the first sentence, and sentence tokenizations
of the question paragraph for convenience.
* `qanta.mapped.2021.12.20.json`: The processed dataset with Wikipedia pages matched to the answer where possible. This
includes all questions, even those without matched pages.
* `qanta.2021.12.20.sqlite3`: Equivalent to `qanta.mapped.2021.12.20.json` but in sqlite3 format
* `qanta.train.2021.12.20.json`: Training data which is the mapped dataset filtered down to only questions with non-null
page matches
* `qanta.dev.2021.12.20.json`: Dev data which is the mapped dataset filtered down to only questions with non-null
page matches
* `qanta.test.2021.12.20.json`: Test data which is the mapped dataset filtered down to only questions with non-null
page matches

## Dependencies

Install all necessary Python packages into a virtual environment by running `poetry install` in the qanta directory. Further qanta setup requiring python depedencies should be performed in the virtual environment.

The virtual environment can be accessed by running `poetry shell`.

### NLTK Models
```bash
# Download nltk data
$ python3 nltk_setup.py
```

### Installing Elastic Search 5.6
(only needed for Elastic Search Guesser)

```bash
$ curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-5.6.2.tar.gz
$ tar -xvf elasticsearch-5.6.2.tar.gz
```

Install version 5.6.X, do not use 6.X. Also be sure that the directory `bin/` within the extracted files is in your
`$PATH` as it contains the necessary binary `elasticsearch`.


### Qanta on Path

In addition to these steps you need to include the qanta directory in your `PYTHONPATH` environment variable. We intend to fix path issues in the future by fixing absolute/relative paths.


## Configuration

QANTA configuration is done through a combination of environment variables and
the `qanta-defaults.yaml`/`qanta.yaml` files. QANTA will read a `qanta.yaml`
first if it exists, otherwise it will fall back to reading
`qanta-defaults.yaml`. This is meant to allow for custom configuration of
`qanta.yaml` after copying it via `cp qanta-defaults.yaml qanta.yaml`.

The configuration of most interest is how to enable or disable specific guesser
implementations. In the `guesser` config the keys such as
`qanta.guesser.dan.DanGuesser` correspond to the fully qualified paths of each
guesser. Each of these keys contain an array of configurations (this is
signified in yaml by the `-`). Our code will inspect all of these
configurations looking for those that have `enabled: true`, and only run those
guessers. By default we have `enabled: false` for all models. If you simply
want to perform a sanity check we recommend enabling
`qanta.guesser.tfidf.TfidfGuesser`. If you are looking for our best model and
configuration you should use enable `qanta.guesser.rnn.RnnGuesser`.

## Running QANTA

Running qanta is managed primarily by two methods: `./cli.py` and
[Luigi](https://github.com/spotify/luigi). The former is used to run specific
commands such as starting/stopping elastic search, but in general `luigi` is
the primary method for running our system.

### Luigi Pipelines
Luigi is a pure python make-like framework for running data pipelines. Below we
give sample commands for running different parts of our pipeline. In general,
you should either append `--local-scheduler` to all commands or learn about
using the [Luigi Central
Scheduler](https://luigi.readthedocs.io/en/stable/central_scheduler.html).

For these common tasks you can use command `luigi --local-scheduler` followed by:

* `--module qanta.pipeline.preprocess DownloadData`: This downloads any
  necessary data and preprocesses it. This will download a copy of our
  preprocessed Wikipedia stored in AWS S3 and turn it into the format used by our
  code. This step requires the AWS CLI, `lz4`, Apache Spark, and may require a
  decent amount of RAM.
* `--module qanta.pipeline.guesser AllGuesserReports`: Train all enabled
  guessers, generate guesses for them, and produce a report of their
  performance into `output/guesser`.

Certain tasks might require Spacy models (e.g `en_core_web_lg`) or nltk data
(e.g `wordnet`) to be downloaded. See the [FAQ](#debugging-faq-and-solutions)
section for more information.

### Qanta CLI

You can start/stop elastic search with
* `./cli.py elasticsearch start`
* `./cli.py elasticsearch stop`


## AWS S3 Checkpoint/Restore

To provide and easy way to version, checkpoint, and restore runs of qanta we provide a script to
manage that at `aws_checkpoint.py`. We assume that you set an environment variable
`QB_AWS_S3_BUCKET` to where you want to checkpoint to and restore from. We assume that we have full
access to all the contents of the bucket so we suggest creating a dedicated bucket.

## Information on our data sources
### Wikipedia Dumps

As part of our ingestion pipeline we access raw wikipedia dumps. Updated dumps can be found here: https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/. The current code is based on the english wikipedia
dumps created on 2021/12/20 available at https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20211220/. Previously, the code used the dump from 2017/04/01 available at https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20170401/.

Of these we use the following (you may need to use more recent dumps)

* [Wikipedia page text](https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20170401/enwiki-20170401-pages-articles-multistream.xml.bz2) (`enwiki-[date]-pages-articles-multistream.xml.bz2`): This is used to get the text, title, and id of wikipedia pages
* [Wikipedia titles](https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20170401/enwiki-20170401-all-titles.gz) (`enwiki-[date]-all-titles.gz`): This is used for more convenient access to wikipedia page titles
* [Wikipedia redirects](https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20170401/enwiki-20170401-redirect.sql.gz) (`enwiki-[date]-redirect.sql.gz`): DB dump for wikipedia redirects, used for resolving different ways of referencing the same wikipedia entity
* [Wikipedia page to ids](https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20170401/enwiki-20170401-page.sql.gz) (`enwiki-[date]-page.sql.gz`): Contains a mapping of wikipedia page and ids, necessary for making the redirect table useful
* [Wikipedia category links](https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20170401/enwiki-20170401-page.sql.gz) (`enwiki-[date]-page.sql.gz`): Contains a mapping of wikipedia page and ids, necessary for making the redirect table useful

To process wikipedia we use [https://github.com/attardi/wikiextractor](https://github.com/attardi/wikiextractor)
with the following command:

```bash
$ wikiextractor --processes 15 -o parsed-wiki --json enwiki-[date]-pages-articles-multistream.xml.bz2
```

Do not use the flag to filter disambiguation pages. It uses a simple string regex to check the title and articles contents. This introduces both false positives and false negatives. We handle the problem of filtering these out by using the wikipedia categories dump

Afterwards we use the following command to tar it, compress it with lz4, and upload the archive to S3

```bash
tar cvf - parsed-wiki | lz4 - parsed-wiki.tar.lz4
```

#### Wikipedia Redirect Mapping Creation

The output of this process is stored in `s3://pinafore-us-west-2/public/wiki_redirects.csv`

All the wikipedia database dumps are provided in MySQL sql files. This guide has a good explanation of how to install MySQL which is necessary to use SQL dumps. For this task we will need these tables:

* Redirect table: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Redirect_table
* Page table: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Page_table
* The namespace page is also helpful: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Namespace

To install, prepare MySQL, and read in the Wikipedia SQL dumps execute the following:

1. Install MySQL `sudo apt-get install mysql-server` and `sudo mysql_secure_installation`
   1. On Mac: Install with `brew install mysql`, start with `brew services start mysql`, `mysql_secure_installation`, see https://flaviocopes.com/mysql-how-to-install/ for more information about set up.

2. Login with `mysql -u root -p`, entering password in the following prompt
3. Create a database and use it with `create database wikipedia;` and `use wikipedia;`
4. `source enwiki-20211220-redirect.sql;` (in MySQL session)
5. `source enwiki-20211220-page.sql;` (in MySQL session)
6. This will take quite a long time, so wait it out...
7. Finally run the query to fetch the redirect mapping and write it to a CSV by executing `bin/redirect.sql` with `source bin/redirect.sql`. The file will be located in `/var/lib/mysql/redirect.csv` which requires `sudo` access to copy
8. The result of that query is CSV file containing a source page id, source page title, and target page title. This can be
  interpretted as the source page redirecting to the target page. We filter namespace=0 to keep only redirects/pages that are main pages and trash things like list/category pages

#### Wikipedia Category Links Creation

The purpose of this step is to use wikipedia category links to filter out disambiguation pages. Every wikipedia page
has a list of categories it belongs to. We filter out any pages which have a category which includes the string `disambiguation`
in its name. The output of this process is a json file containing a list of page_ids that correspond to known disambiguation pages.
These are then used downstream to filter down to only non-disambiguation wikipedia pages.

The output of this process is stored in `s3://pinafore-us-west-2/public/disambiguation_pages.json` with the csv also
saved at `s3://pinafore-us-west-2/public/categorylinks.csv`

The process for this is similar to redirects, except that you should instead source a file named similar to `enwiki-20211220-categorylinks.sql`, run
the script `bin/categories.sql`, and copy `categorylinks.csv`. Afterwards run `./cli.py categories disambiguate categorylinks.csv data/external/wikipedia/disambiguation_pages.json`.
This file is automatically downloaded by the pipeline code like the redirects file so unless you would like to change this or inspect the results, you shouldn't need to worry about this.

##### SQL References

These references may be useful and are the source for these instructions:

* https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-mysql-on-ubuntu-16-04
* https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/mysql-batch-commands.html
* http://stackoverflow.com/questions/356578/how-to-output-mysql-query-results-in-csv-format

## Ingestion Update Info

Answer mapping is divided into two stages: (1) An automatic rule-based answer matcher linking answers to pages. (2) Manually annotated matches.

Manually annotated matches may be direct one-to-one matches between question IDs and answers. These manually created mappings are found in `data/internal/page_assignment/direct`. They may also be "unambiguous" links made by an annotator between an answer line and wikipedia page, `data/internal/page_assignment/unambiguous`. Lastly, they may also be "ambiguous mappings," which link answers to pages conditionally based off if key phrases are in the question. These maps are found in `data/internal/page_assignment/ambiguous`. Questions that can not be mapped are placed in `unmappable.yaml`. These manual annotations aim to ensure that questions in the test fold unmapped after the first stage of matching are all either mapped or confirmed as unmappable.

Stage 1: Creates `automatic_report.json`, `unbound_answers.json`, and `answer_map.json`. Uses defined mapping rules, and in the later created `match_report.json`, represent the 'automatic' answers

Stage 2: Uses the aforementioned manually annotated files to match between answer and wikipedia pages. In conflict cases, these annoted matches are preferred over stage 1's automatic matches. After this stage is done, `match_report.json` is created, indicating the questions that remain unmatched or have been annotated as unmappable.

### Answer Mapping Files:

* `automatic_report.json`: There are two maps, one linking answers to Wikipedia pages (`answer_map`) and another linking to disambiguation pages (`ambig_answer_map`).
  * `answer_map`: For each quizbowl question answer to Wikipedia page pairing, lists the following: the expansion rule that created the associated answer that matched with a page, the match rule used to match that answer to a page, and the which of the modified Wikipedia pages created the match (the "source").
  * `ambig_answer_map`: Creates list of potential page matches for an answer based on disambiguation page results

* `match_report.json`: Shows information about matched and unmatched answers
  * `train_unmatched`: Shows all questions and associated metadata that are not matched to a wikipedia page in the train fold
  * `test_unmatched`: Shows all questions and associated metadata that are not matched to a wikipedia page in the test fold
  * `train_unmappable` and `test_unmappable`: All questions that have been annotated as unmappable in the noted folds
  * `match_report`: Lists the result from annotated
* `unbound_answers.json`: All the original answers to ingested quizbowl questions. Does NOT refer to answers that were not bound to a page after the process is done.
* `answer_map.json`: Answer map linking given answer to a proposed Wikipedia page
  * `answer_map`: Answers linked directly to a page through one of the rules found in `automatic_report.json` or through direct linkage (?)
  * `ambig_answer_map`: Answers linked to a page (may include duplicates with above)

## Debugging FAQ and Solutions

> pyspark uses the wrong version of python

Set PYSPARK_PYTHON to be python3

> ImportError: No module named 'pyspark'

export PYTHONPATH=$SPARK_HOME/python:$SPARK_HOME/python/build:$PYTHONPATH

> ValueError: unknown locale: UTF-8

export LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8
export LANG=en_US.UTF-8

> TypeError: namedtuple() missing 3 required keyword-only arguments: 'verbose', 'rename', and 'module'

Python 3.6 needs Spark 2.1.1

> OSError: [E050] Can't find model 'en_core_web_lg'. It doesn't seem to be a shortcut link, a Python package or a valid path to a data directory.

To download the required Spacy model, run:

```
python -m spacy download en_core_web_lg
```

> Missing "wordnet" data for nltk

In a Python interactive shell, run the following commands to download wordnet data:

```python
import nltk
nltk.download('wordnet')
```

> Resource omw-1.4 not found

In a Python interactive shell, run the following commands to download wordnet data:

```python
import nltk
nltk.download('omw-1.4')
```

## Qanta ID Numbering

* Default dataset starts near 0
* PACE Adversarial Writing Event May 2018 starts at 1,000,000
* December 15 2018 event starts at 2,000,000
* Dataset for HS student of ACF 2018 Regionals starts at 3,000,000

Commit message:

update readme with some clarifications about wikipedia redirect mapping

README.md, after:

# QANTA

## Downloading Data

Whether you would like to use our system or use only our dataset, the easiest way to do so is
use our `dataset.py` script. It is a standalone script whose only dependencies are python 3.6 and the package `click`
which can be installed via `pip install click`.

The following commands can be used to download our dataset, or datasets we use in either the system or paper plots.
Data will be downloaded to `data/external/datasets` by default, but can be changed with the `--local-qanta-prefix`
option

* `./dataset.py download`: Download only the qanta dataset
* `./dataset.py download wikidata`: Download our preprocessed wikidata.org `instance of` attributes
* `./dataset.py download plotting`: Download the squad, simple questions, jeopardy, and triviaqa datasets we
compare against in our paper plots and tables

### File Description:

* `qanta.unmapped.2021.12.20.json`: All questions in our dataset, without mapped Wikipedia answers. Sourced from
protobowl and quizdb. Light preprocessing has been applied to remove quiz bowl specific syntax such as instructions
to moderators
* `qanta.processed.2021.12.20.json`: Prior dataset with added fields extracting the first sentence, and sentence tokenizations
of the question paragraph for convenience.
* `qanta.mapped.2021.12.20.json`: The processed dataset with Wikipedia pages matched to the answer where possible. This
includes all questions, even those without matched pages.
* `qanta.2021.12.20.sqlite3`: Equivalent to `qanta.mapped.2021.12.20.json` but in sqlite3 format
* `qanta.train.2021.12.20.json`: Training data which is the mapped dataset filtered down to only questions with non-null
page matches
* `qanta.dev.2021.12.20.json`: Dev data which is the mapped dataset filtered down to only questions with non-null
page matches
* `qanta.test.2021.12.20.json`: Test data which is the mapped dataset filtered down to only questions with non-null
page matches

## Dependencies

Install all necessary Python packages into a virtual environment by running `poetry install` in the qanta directory. Further qanta setup requiring python depedencies should be performed in the virtual environment.

The virtual environment can be accessed by running `poetry shell`.

### NLTK Models
```bash
# Download nltk data
$ python3 nltk_setup.py
```

### Installing Elastic Search 5.6
(only needed for Elastic Search Guesser)

```bash
$ curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-5.6.2.tar.gz
$ tar -xvf elasticsearch-5.6.2.tar.gz
```

Install version 5.6.X, do not use 6.X. Also be sure that the directory `bin/` within the extracted files is in your
`$PATH` as it contains the necessary binary `elasticsearch`.


### Qanta on Path

In addition to these steps you need to include the qanta directory in your `PYTHONPATH` environment variable. We intend to fix path issues in the future by fixing absolute/relative paths.


## Configuration

QANTA configuration is done through a combination of environment variables and
the `qanta-defaults.yaml`/`qanta.yaml` files. QANTA will read a `qanta.yaml`
first if it exists, otherwise it will fall back to reading
`qanta-defaults.yaml`. This is meant to allow for custom configuration of
`qanta.yaml` after copying it via `cp qanta-defaults.yaml qanta.yaml`.

The configuration of most interest is how to enable or disable specific guesser
implementations. In the `guesser` config the keys such as
`qanta.guesser.dan.DanGuesser` correspond to the fully qualified paths of each
guesser. Each of these keys contain an array of configurations (this is
signified in yaml by the `-`). Our code will inspect all of these
configurations looking for those that have `enabled: true`, and only run those
guessers. By default we have `enabled: false` for all models. If you simply
want to perform a sanity check we recommend enabling
`qanta.guesser.tfidf.TfidfGuesser`. If you are looking for our best model and
configuration you should use enable `qanta.guesser.rnn.RnnGuesser`.

## Running QANTA

Running qanta is managed primarily by two methods: `./cli.py` and
[Luigi](https://github.com/spotify/luigi). The former is used to run specific
commands such as starting/stopping elastic search, but in general `luigi` is
the primary method for running our system.

### Luigi Pipelines
Luigi is a pure python make-like framework for running data pipelines. Below we
give sample commands for running different parts of our pipeline. In general,
you should either append `--local-scheduler` to all commands or learn about
using the [Luigi Central
Scheduler](https://luigi.readthedocs.io/en/stable/central_scheduler.html).

For these common tasks you can use command `luigi --local-scheduler` followed by:

* `--module qanta.pipeline.preprocess DownloadData`: This downloads any
  necessary data and preprocesses it. This will download a copy of our
  preprocessed Wikipedia stored in AWS S3 and turn it into the format used by our
  code. This step requires the AWS CLI, `lz4`, Apache Spark, and may require a
  decent amount of RAM.
* `--module qanta.pipeline.guesser AllGuesserReports`: Train all enabled
  guessers, generate guesses for them, and produce a report of their
  performance into `output/guesser`.

Certain tasks might require Spacy models (e.g `en_core_web_lg`) or nltk data
(e.g `wordnet`) to be downloaded. See the [FAQ](#debugging-faq-and-solutions)
section for more information.

### Qanta CLI

You can start/stop elastic search with
* `./cli.py elasticsearch start`
* `./cli.py elasticsearch stop`


## AWS S3 Checkpoint/Restore

To provide and easy way to version, checkpoint, and restore runs of qanta we provide a script to
manage that at `aws_checkpoint.py`. We assume that you set an environment variable
`QB_AWS_S3_BUCKET` to where you want to checkpoint to and restore from. We assume that we have full
access to all the contents of the bucket so we suggest creating a dedicated bucket.

## Information on our data sources
### Wikipedia Dumps

As part of our ingestion pipeline we access raw wikipedia dumps. Updated dumps can be found here: https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/. The current code is based on the english wikipedia
dumps created on 2021/12/20 available at https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20211220/. Previously, the code used the dump from 2017/04/01 available at https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20170401/.

Of these we use the following (you may need to use more recent dumps)

* [Wikipedia page text](https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20170401/enwiki-20170401-pages-articles-multistream.xml.bz2) (`enwiki-[date]-pages-articles-multistream.xml.bz2`): This is used to get the text, title, and id of wikipedia pages
* [Wikipedia titles](https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20170401/enwiki-20170401-all-titles.gz) (`enwiki-[date]-all-titles.gz`): This is used for more convenient access to wikipedia page titles
* [Wikipedia redirects](https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20170401/enwiki-20170401-redirect.sql.gz) (`enwiki-[date]-redirect.sql.gz`): DB dump for wikipedia redirects, used for resolving different ways of referencing the same wikipedia entity
* [Wikipedia page to ids](https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20170401/enwiki-20170401-page.sql.gz) (`enwiki-[date]-page.sql.gz`): Contains a mapping of wikipedia page and ids, necessary for making the redirect table useful
* [Wikipedia category links](https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/20170401/enwiki-20170401-page.sql.gz) (`enwiki-[date]-page.sql.gz`): Contains a mapping of wikipedia page and ids, necessary for making the redirect table useful

To process wikipedia we use [https://github.com/attardi/wikiextractor](https://github.com/attardi/wikiextractor)
with the following command:

```bash
$ wikiextractor --processes 15 -o parsed-wiki --json enwiki-[date]-pages-articles-multistream.xml.bz2
```

Do not use the flag to filter disambiguation pages. It uses a simple string regex to check the title and articles contents. This introduces both false positives and false negatives. We handle the problem of filtering these out by using the wikipedia categories dump

Afterwards we use the following command to tar it, compress it with lz4, and upload the archive to S3

```bash
tar cvf - parsed-wiki | lz4 - parsed-wiki.tar.lz4
```

#### Wikipedia Redirect Mapping Creation

The output of this process is stored in `s3://pinafore-us-west-2/public/wiki_redirects.csv`. When downloaded into the project, it is renamed and stored at `data/external/wikipedia/all_wiki_redirects.csv`

All the wikipedia database dumps are provided in MySQL sql files. This guide has a good explanation of how to install MySQL which is necessary to use SQL dumps. For this task we will need these tables:

* Redirect table: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Redirect_table
* Page table: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Page_table
* The namespace page is also helpful: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Namespace

To install, prepare MySQL, and read in the Wikipedia SQL dumps execute the following:

1. Install MySQL `sudo apt-get install mysql-server` and `sudo mysql_secure_installation`
   1. On Mac: Install with `brew install mysql`, start with `brew services start mysql`, `mysql_secure_installation`, see https://flaviocopes.com/mysql-how-to-install/ for more information about set up.

2. Login with `mysql -u root -p`, entering password in the following prompt
3. Create a database and use it with `create database wikipedia;` and `use wikipedia;`
4. `source enwiki-20211220-redirect.sql;` (in MySQL session)
5. `source enwiki-20211220-page.sql;` (in MySQL session)
6. This will take quite a long time, so wait it out...
7. Finally run the query to fetch the redirect mapping and write it to a CSV by executing `bin/redirect.sql` with `source bin/redirect.sql`. The file will be located in `/var/lib/mysql/redirect.csv` which requires `sudo` access to copy. This output file is the final step of this process, and renamed `wiki_redirects.csv`.
8. The result of that query is a CSV file containing a source page id, source page title, and target page title. This can be
    interpretted as the source page redirecting to the target page. We filter namespace=0 to keep only redirects/pages that are main pages and trash things like list/category pages

#### Wikipedia Category Links Creation

The purpose of this step is to use wikipedia category links to filter out disambiguation pages. Every wikipedia page
has a list of categories it belongs to. We filter out any pages which have a category which includes the string `disambiguation`
in its name. The output of this process is a json file containing a list of page_ids that correspond to known disambiguation pages.
These are then used downstream to filter down to only non-disambiguation wikipedia pages.

The output of this process is stored in `s3://pinafore-us-west-2/public/disambiguation_pages.json` with the csv also
saved at `s3://pinafore-us-west-2/public/categorylinks.csv`

The process for this is similar to redirects, except that you should instead source a file named similar to `enwiki-20211220-categorylinks.sql`, run
the script `bin/categories.sql`, and copy `categorylinks.csv`. Afterwards run `./cli.py categories disambiguate categorylinks.csv data/external/wikipedia/disambiguation_pages.json`.
This file is automatically downloaded by the pipeline code like the redirects file so unless you would like to change this or inspect the results, you shouldn't need to worry about this.

##### SQL References

These references may be useful and are the source for these instructions:

* https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-mysql-on-ubuntu-16-04
* https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/mysql-batch-commands.html
* http://stackoverflow.com/questions/356578/how-to-output-mysql-query-results-in-csv-format

## Ingestion Update Info

Answer mapping is divided into two stages: (1) An automatic rule-based answer matcher linking answers to pages. (2) Manually annotated matches.

Manually annotated matches may be direct one-to-one matches between question IDs and answers. These manually created mappings are found in `data/internal/page_assignment/direct`. They may also be "unambiguous" links made by an annotator between an answer line and wikipedia page, `data/internal/page_assignment/unambiguous`. Lastly, they may also be "ambiguous mappings," which link answers to pages conditionally based off if key phrases are in the question. These maps are found in `data/internal/page_assignment/ambiguous`. Questions that can not be mapped are placed in `unmappable.yaml`. These manual annotations aim to ensure that questions in the test fold unmapped after the first stage of matching are all either mapped or confirmed as unmappable.

Stage 1: Creates `automatic_report.json`, `unbound_answers.json`, and `answer_map.json`. Uses defined mapping rules, and in the later created `match_report.json`, represent the 'automatic' answers

Stage 2: Uses the aforementioned manually annotated files to match between answer and wikipedia pages. In conflict cases, these annoted matches are preferred over stage 1's automatic matches. After this stage is done, `match_report.json` is created, indicating the questions that remain unmatched or have been annotated as unmappable.

### Answer Mapping Files:

* `automatic_report.json`: There are two maps, one linking answers to Wikipedia pages (`answer_map`) and another linking to disambiguation pages (`ambig_answer_map`).
  * `answer_map`: For each quizbowl question answer to Wikipedia page pairing, lists the following: the expansion rule that created the associated answer that matched with a page, the match rule used to match that answer to a page, and the which of the modified Wikipedia pages created the match (the "source").
  * `ambig_answer_map`: Creates list of potential page matches for an answer based on disambiguation page results

* `match_report.json`: Shows information about matched and unmatched answers
  * `train_unmatched`: Shows all questions and associated metadata that are not matched to a wikipedia page in the train fold
  * `test_unmatched`: Shows all questions and associated metadata that are not matched to a wikipedia page in the test fold
  * `train_unmappable` and `test_unmappable`: All questions that have been annotated as unmappable in the noted folds
  * `match_report`: Lists the result from annotated
* `unbound_answers.json`: All the original answers to ingested quizbowl questions. Does NOT refer to answers that were not bound to a page after the process is done.
* `answer_map.json`: Answer map linking given answer to a proposed Wikipedia page
  * `answer_map`: Answers linked directly to a page through one of the rules found in `automatic_report.json` or through direct linkage (?)
  * `ambig_answer_map`: Answers linked to a page (may include duplicates with above)

## Debugging FAQ and Solutions

> pyspark uses the wrong version of python

Set PYSPARK_PYTHON to be python3

> ImportError: No module named 'pyspark'

export PYTHONPATH=$SPARK_HOME/python:$SPARK_HOME/python/build:$PYTHONPATH

> ValueError: unknown locale: UTF-8

export LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8
export LANG=en_US.UTF-8

> TypeError: namedtuple() missing 3 required keyword-only arguments: 'verbose', 'rename', and 'module'

Python 3.6 needs Spark 2.1.1

> OSError: [E050] Can't find model 'en_core_web_lg'. It doesn't seem to be a shortcut link, a Python package or a valid path to a data directory.

To download the required Spacy model, run:

```
python -m spacy download en_core_web_lg
```

> Missing "wordnet" data for nltk

In a Python interactive shell, run the following commands to download wordnet data:

```python
import nltk
nltk.download('wordnet')
```

> Resource omw-1.4 not found

In a Python interactive shell, run the following commands to download wordnet data:

```python
import nltk
nltk.download('omw-1.4')
```

## Qanta ID Numbering

* Default dataset starts near 0
* PACE Adversarial Writing Event May 2018 starts at 1,000,000
* December 15 2018 event starts at 2,000,000
* Dataset for HS student of ACF 2018 Regionals starts at 3,000,000
